JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
is heading back to Europe
tonight, this time to France,
for its independence, or
Bastille Day, celebrations.
But he leaves behind a swirl
over his son's efforts to get
damaging information about
Hillary Clinton, provided
by the Russian government.
John Yang begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: Across Capitol Hill,
the big question was what the
bombshell revelations in Donald
Trump Jr.'s e-mails do to
the Russia investigation.
At his weekly news conference,
House Speaker Paul Ryan did
his best to avoid commenting
directly.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: We have a special counsel
that's doing an investigation
over at the Justice Department.
We have an investigation
here in the House.
in the Senate.
I think it's very important
that these professionals
in these committees
do their jobs, so that
we can get to the
bottom of all this.
QUESTION: Mike Conaway, the
Texas Republican leading the
House investigation, didn't say
much either.
Do you have any concerns about
what you're seeing now, the
press reports about these
meetings that he took
with the Russian lawyer?
REP.
MIKE CONAWAY (R), Texas: Yes,
we're going to pursue every
lead that needs to pursue
and every clue that
needs to be pursued.
QUESTION: Does this
lead need to be pursued?
REP.
MIKE CONAWAY: We're going
to pursue every lead that
makes sense to pursue.
JOHN YANG: In an interview to
be broadcast tomorrow on CBN,
President Trump said Russian
President Vladimir Putin
wouldn't have wanted to
help him in the first place.
DONALD TRUMP, President of
the United States: If Hillary
had won, our military would be
decimated.
Our energy would be
much more expensive.
That's what Putin doesn't
like about me, and that's why
I say, why would he want me?
JOHN YANG: Last night,
Donald Trump Jr. offered
his first public defense
to FOX News Channel's
Sean Hannity.
DONALD TRUMP JR., Son of
Donald Trump: In retrospect, I
probably would have done things
a little differently.
Again, this was
before Russia mania.
This was before they were
building it up in the press.
For me, this was
opposition research.
JOHN YANG: This morning,
Mr. Trump gave his eldest
son a rave review: "He
was open, transparent
and innocent.
This is the greatest witch-hunt
in political history."
At his confirmation hearing to
be FBI director, Christopher
Wray was pressed on that point.
He had a different view of
the investigations, including
special counsel Robert Mueller's
probe, than the man
who nominated him.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM (R), South
Carolina: I'm asking
you, as the future FBI
director, do you consider
this endeavor a witch-hunt?
CHRISTOPHER WRAY, FBI Director
Nominee: I do not consider
Director Mueller to be on
a witch-hunt.
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, the
president's legal team tried to
distance their client from his
namesake.
JAY SEKULOW, Attorney For Donald
Trump: The president wasn't
aware of the meeting, didn't
participate in the meeting,
didn't attend the meeting and
was only made aware of the
e-mails -- actually, reading
the e-mails, seeing the
e-mails, was yesterday when they
were released.
JOHN YANG: For Mr. Trump, the
Russia story has become a burden
he cannot escape, no matter
how hard he tries.
Every time he appears to be
moving in a different direction,
another disclosure puts it right
back front and center.
Today, Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov
seemed to sympathize.
SERGEI LAVROV, Russian Foreign
Minister (through translator):
Today, I turned on the TV again,
and all the Western channels
are discussing only this.
It is amazing how serious
people can make a mountain
when there might not even be a
molehill.
JOHN YANG: There's sure to be
more discussion next week, when
the Senate Judiciary Committee
wants former Trump campaign
chairman Paul Manafort to
testify about his role.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm John Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later, the
president told Reuters
that he only learned
of Donald Trump Jr.'s
meeting with a Russian
lawyer a few days ago.
But he said -- quote --
"I think many people would
have held that meeting."
He also said that he
asked Russian President
Putin last week if he
had meddled in the U.S.
election, and Putin that
said twice absolutely not.
We will explore the legal
implications of all this
after the news summary.